>> Steve Kinney: We are gonna
write a lot of code today.
So I wanna cover some of the kind of
theoretical and philosophical parts first.
Cloud Firestore is based on
this idea of collections.
And this is very different.
The previous version of this course
focuses entirely on the real time
database, and
a lot of that is still relevant.
And that's why we kind of focus
in on Cloud Firestore today.
That content still works.
With Cloud Firestore, you have this
idea of a top level collection.
In this case, there's users and
users have many workouts.
And those workouts have histories
in this diagram from Fire Base.
In the real time database,
it was one giant JSON tree.
And you had to be really careful, because
let's say you wanted to make a chat room,
and you're like, cool, I'll have rooms,
and those rooms will have messages, and
those messages will have users,
and so on and so forth.
If you got any part of that tree,
you would get every sub-node, right?
So you had to be really careful about
keeping the tree incredibly shallow, so
you can have just chat rooms that had
maybe the IDs of the messages, and
keep the messages somewhere else.
So you could get as little
of the tree as you needed.
With Cloud Firestore actually, search
is shallow, so if you get the users,
you're just gonna get this top level.
And for a given user, you can go get
the next collection down, right?
So a lot of the really careful data
management that we had to do with a real
time database Is not as much of
a thing anymore in Cloud Firestore.
There are kinda some new
challenges there which is
going across all of the sub collections
is a little more difficult.
So if you're getting to really
complicated NoSQL queries,
you are still gonna have to do
some data normalization as well.
But that is now for
specific kinda searching cases.
Generally speaking, you can structure
your data based on your UI.
And as you need to pull stuff, right,
you can then kind of rearrange stuff.
And it's really interesting
to think about stuff.
When we think about SQL databases,
we have previously been kind of at
the mercy of the database schema.
Normalize all the data, don't have it
duplicated anywhere, so on and so forth.
And this a lot of times when we're
working a NoSQL database is a big change.
Right, for the most part, is thinking
about our user interface, and thinking
about what we wanna show to the user and
structuring our data based on that.
And it's one of those things that
becomes really kinda difficult to
wrap your mind around.
Sometimes is, it is okay to store
the same data multiple places.
You might be like,
how do I keep that all in sync?
When we get to cloud functions there's
a way to say okay, if I change it and
there's one canonical source.
Let me show you all the places to go
ahead and update it there as well.
And there's ways to go about that.
But basically, thinking about
your user interface first and
modeling your data based on that, rather
than the, like, bowing to the Lord that is
your schema and trying to then sit there
and write complicated join statements and
course and then back into something
that works for your user interface.
That's really great and a fun way
to think about things that I enjoy.
So like I said before, in the real-time
database you had to be very careful cuz
you would get all the sub-nodes of a tree.
That is not true in Cloud Firestore,
you'll get a shallow query.
So if you just search for
all of the users,
you're gonna get those users before
you get those sub collections, and
you kind of dive down for
each one as you need it.
So you still need to be mindful,
especially if you're doing
some complicated searches.
But you can be less paranoid that you're
gonna like send way too much data
to your user.
And either like cuz theoretically we
are developing devices that could run on
mobile or lower power devices, like many
of us who are writing code have like fancy
$3000 laptops, but generally
speaking not all of our users do.
So we can get to like, we don't have to
worry about as much with Cloud Firestore,
which I think is a really nice thing.